# Product-Sales-data-Analysis
Tool used: POWER BI, EXCEL

Hello #datalovers

This is my 3rd Dashboard developed in #powerbi .
It is based on a dataset of Product sales.

🏷 Link to download the Dataset:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/create-reports/sample-financial-download

🏷 Objective of the problem :
The main aim of this report is to analyzing sales data allows companies to keep track of their sales 
and answer all critical questions regarding their performance and to show on how we can use the Power BI with 
product sales analysis data by cleaning the data in Power query and use DAX query language and its performance on
presenting the dashboard with different reports to the end users .

we have the data in Excel file .

🏷 Steps involved in process:
-Download dataset
-Upload data
-Transform data
-Load data
-Create Fact and Dim tables
-Checking Relationships(in Data View)
-Calculating some useful measures
-Designing Visualization
-Publishing it to Power BI service

🏷DAX queries used in this:
1.To find out the total revenue
Revenue = SUM('fact-financials data'[Revenue generate])

2.To find out the Total sales
Total sale = SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales])

3.To find out the Total COGS(cost of goods sale) 
Total COGS = SUM('fact-financials data'[COGS])

4.To find out the Gross Profit 
Gross_Profit = 'fact-financials data'[Revenue generate]-'fact-financials data'[COGS]

5.To find out the Gross Profit Percent
Gross Profit % = [Gross Profit]/[Revenue]

6.To know which Top 3 Products are selling as per country
Top 3 products per country = VAR RankingContext= VALUES('dim- Product Detail'[Product]) 
                             RETURN CALCULATE([Total sale],TOPN(3,ALL('dim- Product Detail'[Product]),[Total sale]),RankingContext)
                             
7.To find Total sales by each segment (create measure of sales of each segment)

 •	Channel Partner
 Channel Partners Total sale = CALCULATE(SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales]),'fact-financials data'[Segment]="Channel Partners")
 
 •	Small Business
 Small Business Total sale = CALCULATE(SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales]),'fact-financials data'[Segment]="Small Business")
 
 •	Enterprise
 Enterprise Total sale = CALCULATE(SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales]),'fact-financials data'[Segment]="Enterprise")
 
 •	Midmarket
 Midmarket Total sale = CALCULATE(SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales]),'fact-financials data'[Segment]="Midmarket")
 
 •	Government
 Govt Total sale = CALCULATE(SUM('fact-financials data'[ Sales]),'fact-financials data'[Segment]="Government")
 
🏷 Learning from the project:
-While working on this project i understand the importance of DAX as we can calculate useful measures from it.
-I learned many new things while creating this dashboard like the creation of page navigation which i used to jump one report to other by a single button click.
-After viewing the complete dashboard i understand how simply we can access the key insights from visualization.

🏷 Created 4 Reports in This Dashboard:
1. Overview
2. Sales Scorecard
3. Top Products
4. Sales by Segments

🏷1st Report of Dashboard(0VERVIEW)-
This page of Dashboard shows the overall report about the product sales that how much the total sales done, how much the revenue generated, 
what is the total COGS, what will be the gross profit earn and the gross profit percent get by filtering with different years, months ,product, 
segment and countries.
It shows all the information in the different visuals like stacked bar chart, scatter chart, line and stacked column chart and Tree map.

In this page, I get insights about overall sale of products year wise as-
•	At Top create Cards by using measures of  Total sale, Revenue, total COGS, Gross profit and Gross profit %
•	In left most side, I also use slicers to select Year, month, different countries, segments, products etc.
•	A page navigator to go to other pages of my dashboard. It has 4 page navigator i.e. overview, Sales Scorecard, Top Products, Segment’s sale.
•	Create scatter charts of Profit generated by products and give how much unit sold of it.
•	Stacked bar chart of Total unit sold by segments.
•	Tree Map of Total unit sold in different country.
•	Line & Stacked Column chart of unit sold of product in years and how much profit it generates.

About Visuals Insights of this report-
	Scatter Chart: It forms the different clusters of product to shows how much profit earns by selling this much unit of products.
	Stacked Bar chart: This chart shows the total no. of units sold in different segments. From the visualization we come to know that in 
                     government segment no. of unit sold is higher as other segments. 
	Tree Map: It shows the total units sold in different countries. Greater the area of rectangle, higher will be the unit sold. 
            So, from this visualization we come to know that Canada has higher no. of unit sold.
	Line and Stacked column chart: This shows us the how much earn profit and how much unit sold in the year 2013 and 2014. 
                                 From the visualization, it clearly shows that in 2014 the no. of unit sold is higher and also the profit earn in 
                                 this year is also more as compare to year 2013.
                                 
🏷2nd Report of Dashboard(SALES SCORECARDS)-
This page of Dashboard generate the report of overall sales scorecard that how much sales it generate by which product, 
how much sales we are doing in different segments and countries. Where we get profit in which product, segment and which country 
and inter-relate all these with each other. 
Also we get exact no. of figures of sales of each product in different countries and get to know in which country which product generates good sale or bad sale.
We also get to know the trends of sales and profit of products in the years 2013 and 2014.
These all information’s are visualized by the help of stacked bar chart, matrix and creating line charts to show trends.

In this page, I get insights about overall sale scorecards as-
•	In left most side, I also use slicers to select Year, month, different countries, segments, products etc.
•	A page navigator to go to other pages of my dashboard. It has 4 page navigator i.e. overview, Sales Scorecard, Top Products, Segment’s sale.
•	Stacked bar chart of Sales and product.
•	Stacked bar chart of Sales and Segment.
•	Stacked bar chart of Sales and Country.
•	Matrix of Product sales in country.
•	Line chart to show Sales trend of product in different years.
•	Line chart to show Profit trend of product in different years.

About Visuals Insights of this report-
	Stacked Bar chart: There are 3 stacked bar charts. 
One is for Sales and Product that shows how much we are selling by product. It tells us that which product has how much sale and which product is in demand in market.
From the chart, it shows that Paseo product is getting highly sale nearly $31M.
Another stacked bar chart is for sales and segment that shows how much we are selling by segments. It tells us that in which segment the sale is high and doing good.
As we see from chart that in Government segment the sales score is very high.
Last stacked bar chart is for Sales and Country that shows how much we are selling by country. 
It tells us that in which country the sale goes good. From the chart, in United state of America and in Canada the sales are good.
	Line charts: This report has 2 Line charts one of Sales trends and other is for profit trends.
               In Sales Trend line chart, it shows the trends of sales of different product in year 2013 and 2014.
               In Profit Trend line chart, it shows the trends of profit generated by different product in year 2013 and 2014.
	Matrix: Matrix gives us the exact no. of figures of sales of different products in different country and highlights 
          the values of sales on basis of some conditions.


🏷3rd Report of Dashboard(TOP PRODUCTS)-
This page of Dashboard shows the report of Top selling products in each country (Mostly calculate Top 3 products).
To visualize the report, in this we used Donut chart, Matrix and Line chart.

In this page, I get insights about to find Top products in different segments, in each country as-
•	In left most side, I also use slicers to select different countries.
•	Make use of measures by creating Cards to show Total sales and Revenue.
•	A page navigator to go to other pages of my dashboard. It has 4 page navigator i.e. overview, Sales Scorecard, Top Products, Segment’s sale.
•	Donut Chart to show top products by segments.
•	Matrix to show which the Top 2 products are sold in each country.
•	Line chart to show top products sales in different countries.

About Visuals Insights from this report-
	Donut Chart: It shows the sales of top 2 products in each segment. As we see, in Government segment the sale of Top 2 products is high.
	Matrix: This matrix shows the top 2 products in each country. As we see, top 2 products in USA are Paseo and VTT.
	Line chart: This shows us the trends of top 2 products and its total sales trend in different countries.

🏷4th Report of Dashboard(SALES BY SEGMENTS)-
This page of Dashboard shows the complete sales report by segment wise that how much sale in channel partner segment, how much sales in small business segment, 
how much sales in enterprise segment, how much sales in midmarket segment and  how much sales in Government segment.
Also give information of no. of units sold and the profit generated by products, how much discount given in each segment and 
what impact it has on sale and what will be the percentage of sales in each segment.
At last we also analyze the profit and loss in each segment.

In this page, I get insights about to find Sales report on basis of each segment as-
•	At Top, By use of Measures we calculate create Cards of  Total sale of channel partner segment, Total sale of small business segment, Total sale of Enterprise segment, Total sale of Midmarket segment, Total sale of Government segment and overall Total sales.
•	In left most side, I also use slicers to select different countries and different products.
•	A page navigator to go to other pages of my dashboard. It has 4 page navigator i.e. overview, Sales Scorecard, Top Products, Segment’s sale.
•	Line and stacked column chart to show number of units sold and profit in each segment.
•	Matrix to show discount in each segment.
•	Pie chart to show percent of sales in segments.
•	Scroller shows the profit and loss which are earn in each segment.

About Visuals Insights from this report-
	Line and stacked column chart: It shows number of units sold in each segments and also how much profit earn by selling that unit in that segment. 
                                 From chart, it clearly shows in Government segment number of unit sold is very high as compare to other segment and profit earn 
                                 from VTT product in that segment.
	Matrix: This matrix shows how much discount is given in each segment and the discounts affect the sales of product in different segments. As we see, 
           in Enterprise segment the discount is given high.
	Pie chart: This shows us the Percentage of total sales in each segment. As we see, in government segment the percent of sales is very high.
